Do you remember any special speakers, any
important campus celebrities coming to visit the
campus during your student days? The president,
the governor, a general?
They probably did. But you don't? But right now,
there's nothing that jumps out.
Nothing stands out at all. Commencement, where
was it? Tell me about commencement, when you
graduated. Commencement was over in G. Robin. And
it was hot. And had the chairs on the floor. And the
stage up on the end, down against the wall. And
that's where commencement was held. Do you
remember who the speaker was? No. I'm sure that
somewhere I probably had that ceremony filed. My
mother did. Who came for you? Well, my mom and my
daddy came. And my daddy had some sisters, and they
were very close to me. And one of my favorite aunt,
my oldest aunt, came down there. She had lost her
husband, and she came and brought her boy. And I
think that was it. I don't remember my brothers.
They probably were. And you attended? Everybody
attended graduation. I don't know of anybody that
didn't go to graduation. Name was called, and
hands were shaking. I guess, because I just don't
remember people not being there. The
student organizations, what were the important
student organizations that you remember? Well
the schools had theirs and they had a fishing game
club and I was not real active in that but I went. The
schools had those. The Hometown Club, in my
experience, was the big, big organization. They
had others. What about band, scene cadets? Oh,
yeah. I don't remember scene cadets. Clearly, if
you said that you know for a fact that scene cadets
were there, I would say not for a fact, but I'm
almost sure they were. I'm virtually certain of
it. Band, of course, has always been a big thing.
Always been. Corps cadets was the predominant
thing there. What was the most prestigious...
student office, student position? Oh, probably
Cadet Colonel Coole. That's the one everybody
knew Auburn knew. And what were the other?
Probably President's student body, although
frankly, I don't recall who that was.
Head yell leader? Head yell leader, of course,
was, yell leaders were all known. Head yell
leader, you know, that's exactly why I wasn't
thinking of that. Yell leaders were just the, just
that. The student body followed them. You know,
they'd give directions and everybody would
follow. A lot of authority given to those guys in
those days. I mean, I'm talking about crowd
control, anything like that. They did a great job.
Let's see, describe, since the, Aggie football
team's doing pretty well in those years. Well,
they didn't do so well when I was there. It was after
I left. I mean, right before I got there. Barry
Bryant was there. He left the semester. I mean, he
coached the last semester. That's what I thought,
yeah. My first semester. He coached that team. The
57th. And they did do great that year. They lost
three games that year. Describe a typical Aggie
football, home football Saturday. Well, if you
were lucky, you had a date down there. And I had some
dates to football games. Always a big weekend.
Looking forward to that. They sold the Aggie mugs.
Remember those deals? They'd go to the TAM or
something. You basically always got one of those.
They weren't expensive. I don't know what they
cost, but you got one of those. Girls would come in
either in car, which is not uncommon. I mean, they
came in as groups, you know, something like that.
Commonly, we would pick girls up the train at North
Zooch. Had one guy that had a car, an old one, and the
back door was tied closed with a rope. And the car's
name was Old Blue. We'd get in Old Blue and take off
up there on Friday. And the train was always late.
We'd try to get back from Midnight Yale and step
over to Grove. Pick those girls up at North Sage and
take off back down there to Midnight Yale. And then
there was a place, we'd a lot of times go up to Falcon
Lounge or the old Bryan Air Base. There was a place
up in that club up there called Falcon Lounge. We'd
end up going up there. We'd get them usually rooms
over at the Sabre Motel somewhere around North,
not North Gate, East Gate of that area. And they'd
stay up there. Now was it the responsibility of the
Aggie to pay that room? Oh everything. The Aggie
paid it all. We split it up or whatever. And gosh it
may cost $7 a night. Did many people have tessie
dates? You know they did. I've heard about writing
a blind date. That was not unusual to go to a town and
show up and you know somebody to get dates for. You
went to Austin several times. Somebody had a car or
even hitchhike over there and see some T-Cit
friend and get dates over there. And one old boy met
some girls that worked at a telephone company. I
mean, we went to holler one Saturday afternoon,
let's go to Austin. I had, I think, one sport coat
and one pair of pants or something like that. We
took off over there and dated some girls that
worked at a telephone company and drove back the
next morning before daylight or something.
Tessie's were, they came to campus a lot. Guys that
come to Dallas for the football game, TCU, Fort
Worth, and Dallas over there, it was not rare to go
up to North Texas, walk in the dorm and sit with
three of us here and watch the Bates. And then the
girls come downstairs and they sort of pick them
out, you know. That was not unusual. Tell me about
Midnight Yale practice. It was a great
experience. A lot of Bates were there because of
the football games, you know, we had them come in
there. go to Midnight Yale. I'm not saying
drinking was not a problem, but I remember it being
a problem. I think today they'd be having trouble
drinking there, and I don't know that it wasn't,
but I remember thinking about that. But we'd go to
the Grove, and Midnight Yale was a big thing to go
to. All the girls wanted to go there, and it never
occurred to us not to go to Midnight Yale practice.
Just like silver taps or something, you would
never consider not going to silver taps. It was
just not done. But the Midnight Yales, you'd go to
that, and after that we'd go out somewhere, and go
to bed at all hours. Next morning, probably pick up
those girls up and maybe, and probably go to Sabisa
with them. Took her to Sabisa quite a bit. And ate
over there. Didn't go to restaurants that much.
Some, the Triangle or something maybe. But maybe
for the football game, go there. Parents would
come down sometime. You'd buy tickets and they'd
go into Sabisa. We always kind of wanted to show it
off. It was kind of cool. You know, call all that
food by nicknames. Then on Saturday night, was
there usually an organized campus social event on
a Saturday night after a game? Probably was. I
don't remember that. I don't remember going to
that. We'd gather. You know, big groups would have
dates down. Or maybe all get adjoining rooms at the
holiday end. But down on Texas, there's some
hotels along there, motels. And get several rooms
together. We'd all go back over there. In the early
part of the year, they'd have swimming pools. We'd
go swimming. You know, spent some time together.
Do you know anything about any, did you hear
anything about secret fraternities? Well,
that's not right. Back in those days, Judge
McDonnell had ruled something out. It would be
women admitted or something like that.
Harrington was there and Rutter and those guys
were there. There was a group called the Molds and
they published the mole in the steam tunnels, an
underground, literally, newspaper. And you'd
find those things over by selling, you know,
they'd be over there in stacks or whatever, and the
mole would come out. It was a controversial
student-published sheet, you know, like that.
And it would, you know, want to hang the Harrington
effigy or whatever they even did. Was the mole
conservative? Ultra. So it was against any
change. Any change, that's right. Any change at
all. And we all got, it was a big laughing matter,
got a kick out of it. Secret fraternities as such,
though. I don't remember anything. Some of the
people that I've chatted with so far have said yes,
they thought there was the TTs, the True Texans,
and that there were another group said they
thought there was one called the Stickers. as in
the last two syllables of swastika. And I have
found that in old Longhorn yearbooks, remember
that was the name until 48, quite often there was a
swastika, long before Adolf Hitler used it, came
from the Navajo symbolism for friendship. Right.
and that there would be a swastika drawn on various
things. I have no idea where they're... Now, if you
ask me if I've heard of that, I have heard of those.
But you don't... But I wasn't aware of anything
like that. And if you ask me how long ago have you
heard of this, I've heard of this since I've been on
the board of the Association of Farmers. Okay. All
right. I've even heard a few people go so far as to
drop a couple of names that it'd be very surprising
how profiled names they might have had to
distance. I wouldn't dare repeat those because I
wouldn't even know if that's the case or not. I
don't know the implication of those secret
fraternities. There have been indications of it.
Back to the routine of social life. In all of these
dances and midnight yell practices and so forth,
non-regs, and corps members participate fully,
equally? Probably not. I think that's the reason
that I didn't have the experience with the
organized things. Now, I'm not saying anybody's
at fault here, except myself. I don't remember,
for example, ever having gone to a cotton ball.
It's a big thing in spring. The mate of cotton was
chosen down there. Big thing. The beautiful girls
would come by. We'd sit by and watch and lust, I
guess, you know, and watch those pretty girls come
by. And they had pictures in the annual, you know,
so... Well, but I didn't participate in it. But you
went to, y'all practiced, and you went to, and you
and your buddies went to Senior Taps, to Silver
Taps. Always. You participated in those things
without fail.
Let's see, no World War II, no back, were there some
veterans there from Korea days that you remember?
Some quote older guys? Yeah, they were in the
wildlife department. We had some fellows that
came back and were studying wildlife. They were
veterans. As a matter of fact, there were quite a
number of undergraduates who were veterans at
that time. They were mainly day ducks. They were
guys who had come back and lived off campus. Many
were married by that time. Now, how did you learn
Aggie slang? by osmosis? Well, probably not.
Probably learned a lot of it, because like I say,
when you decide to go to A&M, you start getting all
this literature, you know. I mean, they'd come out
and they probably had little booklets. I was aware
of much of that when I got there, but for the most
part, it was probably just exposure to the ones
they got on campus. Quite a lot of trivia. You were
in non-reg, you learned quite a lot of trivia. You
weren't held accountable for it, but you were
exposed to it. And, uh, that you were pretty
doggone well versed as a non-reg down there
because it was such a traditional closed society
that you were around this stuff all the time and you
know you were surrounded by core guys and other
non-regs and it was just there wasn't you did not
speak to each other you were good friends with
those fellas spent a lot of time in that dorm room
and stuff like that uh harrington was a senior
administrator did you as a student have any
interaction seeing I don't know. Did you have any
impression? See him occasionally. He would be at
things. He'd be at functions. I'm sure he
occasionally would be at... What was your memory
of his personality? He was regarded as probably a
very starchy fellow in those days. Maybe
controversially, though. Rudder was adored, of
course, like you. You think he was adored even
then? I think so. But he endeared himself. I mean, I
had a, I was on crutches one time, I had a hurt foot,
and I was walking along there on crutches, and it
was raining, and a car pulled up over there by
Salisa Hall. I was over in 16, and over close where
the fountain is now. A car pulled up, the door
opened, and I leaned down because I was ringing the
way I try to handle those books and stuff, you know,
out of that poncho. And President Lutter was
there. He said, where are you going, son? I said,
well, I'm trying to get to my dorm. He said, well,
get in. I'll take you. I said, just right over
there. He said, I'll take you. So I got in the car
with him. We visited on the way over there. We sat
down and visited a few times. Unusual. Unusual.
That kind of a, maybe it wasn't unusual in those
days. But I thought it, we're sitting here talking
about 40 years later. I obviously remember. Was
there a guy named Pinky Downs there then? Describe
Pinky. Boy, he was quite a figure, I'm telling you.
I think he wore an old black hat, kind of a flat
brimmed hat, kind of a tall crown to it. He was an old
man, didn't he? And he was everywhere. He was at
yoke practices and football games and And I'll
tell you, he was quite a character. The official
greeter was what he was called. So in a lot of time
around the all-face chapel, MSC, all through
there, you'd see him. He'd come into the dorm. But
you'd notice him. I mean, it's like Ichabod Crane
showed up. You'd look up, and he was such an
imposing guy. I wouldn't say imposing.
Noticeable. But he was just ubiquitous. You know,
piggy-downs on campus. J.E. Lupo? Oh, yeah. Love
most of my books over there. Walk in, always spoke
to everybody, give you a dollar for your
friendship, and you buy a book, and he'd knock a
dollar off or something like that. Always knew
that, you know. But later on, I bought my vet school
supplies and went from there. Interesting man.
May never be another one like him. Now, I've heard
that many students could buy things on credit from
you. I didn't, but that was done many times. Hired a
lot of students. Let student organizations that
sold instruments, for example, vet school, get
supplies, I think, through himself. Like he told
me one time, a long years ago, he said, I don't
believe I've ever lost any money in student loans.
I've heard he said that. Now, I didn't know Lupo.
personally, like I know you even. We have visited
many, many, many times, but all students just
about at that day could say that. But when you got
ready to go to A&M, you started getting your
package in the mail. Lupo was there. I mean, his
presence was high from that point on. He really did
a great job of marketing himself down there. Let's
see, other characters. There wasn't a dean of
students then. There wasn't a John Coldis-like
character, was there? There was a phone named
Benny Zinn. Yeah, yeah, I forgot Benny. And Benny
Zinn was a guy that you all, everybody knew about
him. And I know we had a big water fight one time.
You're not supposed to have those on water. He had a
big water fight. He came over and walked around for
a while. He said, I want this thing cleaned up, and I
don't want this happening anymore because it'll
catch anybody and kick them out of school, kind of
like that. Also, we had a little bunch of, I
remember vaguely, Pascoe, that we had some guys
that registered at A&M that were just a little bit,
I mean they were kind of a troublemaker, a liberal
faction that came in and had an organization name,
I think, that was national on college campuses.
And I can't remember the name of that. Supposedly
some of those guys registered before, moved into a
dorm. Anything to be different, they would
challenge everything. Rumor has it that a bunch of
Aggies got those guys down to give them a GI shower.
You know, got those brushes and just scrubbed them
down real good. They even bathed that long hair,
kind of one of those deals.
Probably some of those guys, like Dr., I mean Mr.
Rudder said at the steps, you'll have to get by this
pot better than the president before you're going
to do this. That attitude. And I think that Zen or
somebody got over there and told him, said you are,
you cannot do that. You are confined to this campus
for the rest of the night. and nothing, in other
words, a cursory approval almost. Those guys
didn't stay. Let's see, other, Dean of
Agriculture
was there? Dr. Potts is such a prominent fellow in
my mind. He was not Dean of Agriculture, but Dean of
Agriculture I know was a big figure in those days.
But you as a student didn't have it? As a student, I
had nothing, no dealings with it. Let's see,
describe Northgate. What was at Northgate?
Probably, much like today, is one of the worst
things on grade points you ever saw in your life.
That was the nearest thing we had for commercial
enterprise around there. You know, you always go
to the post office. and go to the post office when
there's no reason in the world not to go on over and
get a cup of coffee. Go get a cup, as everybody said.
There was no liquor store in that gate. And where
would you get that coffee? Oh, there was a place
called Godfrey's over there. The bookstores,
there were two or three bookstores over there. The
photo shop was in the corner. The boot store, the
shoe store, sockage or whatever it was named.
Hollick's? Hollick's, yeah, it was down there.
Ellison Drug was on the corner right across over
there in the south, I mean on the northwest corner.
There was just a little strip along there. Campus
Theater? Campus Theater was down the end, right
across from the dorm. You notice my place is called
Northgate. This is the other Northgate. But
anyway, yeah, that was the exposure that you had to
commercial enterprises. Rarely did you go to
Bryan. I don't remember going to Bryan, not to
sneeze at. Do you remember any, I think this is a
question that doesn't have application to your
years, Do you remember any major international or
national events that caused you to kind of stop in
your tracks and think about what it might mean to
you? Sputnik. Oh, yeah. Sputnik jumps out. That's
when that was, you know, it kind of shocked us in the
reality that we're not necessarily on the cutting
edge all the time on everything.
Not international, but a national event was when
Barry Lyon decided to go to the University of
Alabama. Let's talk about Bear Bryant and
football and so forth. Did you as a student, did you
have any acquaintance or interaction with any of
those sports heroes?
Those guys were almost on another planet. I didn't
have any interaction with them except for Tyler.
He transferred to SMU, met a girl, transferred up
there. Charlie Milstead was a classmate. And
Charlie was there. He'd come to hometown club
meetings sometimes. We knew each other vaguely. I
went to high school with him. We didn't spend any
time in the Corps. I was athletic and going on. I
never went in the athletic block except just maybe
walk in there or something. I didn't know athletes
to speak of. Always had a great, great desire. I'll
never forget it. The Letterman, in swimming and
stuff, had those pretty white sweaters with that
big maroon tee on it. And swimming across the top of
that tee.
I swam a lot because I was raised in State Park, a
lifeguard, taught a lot of water safety and stuff.
But I wasn't a competitive swimmer. But I had this
great delusion. fantasized about swimming,
maybe even talked about going over there. Now
there's no way, there is no way that I look back that
I would have done that. But I would have killed to
have worn one of those sweaters across that
campus. Because they meant, those guys were
special because they were so dedicated to what
they did. In those days, you know, the era of jocks
were a big thing anyway. But we adored those guys. I
mean, they gave us headlines. That's where we went
and enjoyed ourselves, you know, football and
stuff. Did y'all have the perception that those
athletes went to class and everything? We had the
perception they cheated a lot. We had the
perception they stole quizzes. There was a guy
named Murray Trimble, the one-armed guy that
played down there that was infamous. I think he may
have flunked out one time, but he came back. I
remember seeing him. I just couldn't, he's tough,
tough old boys. But that, we had, now, I wouldn't
say that was universal. Charlie Milstead was a
smart guy. He was an engineering major. I knew him
from high school. I wouldn't say that it was, but we
had the impression that those guys were cheap, you
know, and stuff like that. That may be overstating
that. What did people on campus think? You and your
buddies think about Bear Bryant? Well, I was only
exposed to him that one time. But, you know, he was a
tough son of a gun. I watched practice with Slats a
few times. I went to practice with Phil. And when
somebody got hurt, I mean, he literally
physically took them off. I mean, he drug them off.
He'd get them out of the way. He was a tough son of a
gun. And everybody knew it. When he left, we felt
like we were going to be betrayed. I remember being
sick about it. Because you could tell that guy was
going to have something out there that
everybody's afraid of. He had this mystique about
him on campus and I think off campus.
Let's see. See, we knew about Junction by then.
Junction happened a couple of years earlier.
Silver Taps as a student when you were there. What
was it, where was it, and what were your feelings
about Silver Taps? Silver Taps is a tradition
that, for God's sake, I hope you never lose. I don't
know that it's unique, but it is as far as I know.
When I was a student, the tradition would adhere to
the latter. You might hear rumors, you usually
would hear rumors of maybe something like you
killed in a car wreck or something like that. There
were not that many of us. We're talking about 7,000
people at the beginning of the year, you know, or
maybe seven to eight. And
most of the time, you would either know the person
or would have met that person. And you certainly
knew someone who knew that person, always. It was
not a, unless you shipped it so far that you didn't
relate to it very closely. So when you heard rumors
of losing an Aggie somewhere, almost always you go
to the flagpole at Sully's over in front of the
academic building. They had that plaque over
there, that bronze plaque, and it had the name of
the person and when the ceremony was going to be or
whatever, announcing that. Well, when the silver
taps came, that was just what you did. You know, it
came time, and you'd turn your lights out, walk out
of the dorm, never say a word. And you'd hear those
footsteps. some coughing or sneezing or
whatever, but you never heard a word. It just was
not done. And I don't know that I remember anybody
in our dorm that never went to self-defense. I
don't know that there was no one that did that, but I
don't remember anybody doing that. You get over
there, and of course it was an eerie thing, but also
a religious experience because, you know, most
religions teach us that relationships are
important. And that's important to us. And you
lost one of yours, and that was a real emotional
thing. Coming back, you just gutted. You know, you
just, but you were aware that this was a memorial
thing and that you could be next. And you were
reverent about that. And when we got back to the
dorm, we didn't have the blankets up. and never
turned any lights on. For the most part, we had the
blankets up, but I wouldn't say we never turned the
light on when we got back to going to finish
studying or something like that. But for the most
part, that wasn't the end of the day, for example,
for us. But everybody went, and they were
reverent. I had a chance to go to a silver tap. My son
was at A&M. He finished in 92. I guess it was the fall
of 91 or something. Went to a silver tap. Related to
the student body, poorly attended. And of course,
the commerce that goes on there, the roads and the
highways out there, it was distracting because
all that was going over on Welder and Road, things
going on. There were noises. It used to be very
quiet. It was silent. And you'd stand there with
your thoughts until you heard the rifles and the
vehicles and stuff. Did you go to Muster as a
student? Went to Muster. And you know,
interestingly enough, I don't remember details
about Muster. Where was it held? The one that jumps
out in my mind was on the lawn out by the NSC. They're
the ones that I remember. Now,
I met the guy who was president of the Association
of Farmer Students the year in 1959. I'm sorry,
I don't remember who he is. But anyway, I remember
his face. I couldn't hear his name. that you had
noted over there. But in any case, he was telling
about that. And I remember vaguely, because
Association of Former Students was just part of
what you did next. Nothing was assumed, I guess,
very much. But we were not presumptuous about
much. When you graduated, you were going to be a
former student. You were going to be active in the
Association of Former Students, at least
financially. Bonfire. Where? Over where it was
until about three years ago, four years ago. Make
believe. over by Duncan Hall over there south of
Duncan. And how big was it and how did it get to be
big? Well I don't remember how big it was. It's
always seemed big to me. What was put in it? Was it
trash? I don't remember trash. Might have been. I
don't think it was. I remember it being logs always
but the outhouse on top seemed like I remember that
forever. Also, we had an Aggie that was either
killed or got killed over there. Right before I got
to A&M, this guy working, and he was standing
behind a car, and everyone came along and hit him,
and he was killed. That was kind of a, I remember
that that was a thing that we remembered a lot about
Bonfire. It was a situation where you want to be
careful if somebody had been killed over there.
The story's about, you know, the tea servers
trying to bomb it, you know, and set it on fire, and
you know, some imposter being in there, and all
that stuff. But none of that happened during
your... It didn't happen. I remember that that was
talked about a lot, and it was a big thing we
wouldn't dare to have, you know. But non-regs were
probably not as involved in bonfire in those days
as we might should have been. All right, Aggie
Ring. What was the, what was the routine for
getting your... Gosh, that's what you work for. I
mean, when you got to A&M, you thought about your
diploma after you got your Aggie ring. I don't
remember spending a lot of time thinking about
getting my degree. I spent time getting my hours
for my autumn Aggie ring. And when you get that ring
or when we got it, it wasn't a ceremony. Not like
your association now. You go upstairs and cope
with it. When you audit it and you go up there and get
it, it's very uneventful, but you give them your
ring. And of course, you get it out and you walk down
those steps looking at it. You go to class, you
couldn't even pay attention to what you were doing
or watching your ring. Of course, it looked like
everybody else's, and you thought everybody's
looking at your ring. And it took a number of days to
get past that, because you couldn't pay attention
to what you were doing. And of course, that thing
has been symbolic forever. How many people do we
know because of that ring that you met somewhere
here? What is Aggie spirit? Define it or explain
it.
Well,
that's just that spiritual thing, the spiritual
meaning of the soul. And I'm talking about things
that make life more worth living. It has to do with
relationships. And it has to do with what makes you
care. And I don't know how you define that very
well. There are things that make you passionate
about things that other people don't have
experiences, maybe, unless you weren't there.
What causes it to happen, I don't know. It's the
thing that we fear that will be lost. It's
something that can be not explained, but it can be
passed on. And it has to do with all these things we
can talk about. And I am firmly convinced that had I
gone to school anyplace else that I would have had a
good education and had very good friends. But I am
more convinced that I would have nothing like the
life that I've lived. I am totally convinced of
that. And I think most Aggies that have had an Aggie
life like we have, you know, feel that way. It has to
do with the legacy in your family. relationships
all the way from the church that you go to. If
somebody jumps out, I mean, you may go to, you may
live, I say this at graduation sometimes, you may
have gone to school somewhere, and you may live in a
neighborhood, or you may go to church, or you may
live in a workplace, they may know you went to
college somewhere, but if you went there, they
know you went to that state. And that is all part of
that deal. That's the exterior part of it. There's
more to it. There's something about it that makes
it, that's the thing that makes it hard and
miserable, that difference. Now, what is that? I
don't know. Well, you've already gotten into that
last question. I think I said in advance, what did
it mean to you that you attended A&M? What effect
did it have on you and your life? What feelings do
you have in your heart for A&M today? Well, it's
indescribable. The gratitude, the debt that you
feel is more than it can describe. And obviously, I
don't care how much money I ever made, if I gave it
back, that would only be the financial part of it.
It would never, ever begin to describe or repay
what my life experience has been. It has meant that
I've had a source of self-assurance and pride
about who I am as a person. It has given me
financial... ability in this life to far exceed
anything beyond what you've ever dreamed of,
ever, far, far. And I'm not a rich man in monetary
terms. I'm comfortable with that.